# 1.1 Keyboard Fundamentals

A keyboard is an arrangement of keys that when pressed or tapped, sends a `key code` to a keyboard driver. `Key codes` are all the keys like Alphanumeric(a, b, 1, 2), modifier(ctrl, alt/option), arrow keys and many more. All these keys form a `keyboard layout` that represents the key and a position. There are some common layouts that even have names such as qwerty, colemak, and dvorak that rearrange keys.

* pics of layout types

The purpose of a keyboard is to be an input device to communicate information to your computer. If a key outputs a single code, then there would be a one-to-one relationship, where each key gets a single keycode output. This is quite impractical and would result in a keyboard like in Figure 2.

* pic of keyboard with lots of keys

A key can instead have a one-to-many relationship with the help of `Activators.` Activators are the keycodes like the shift and capslock keys.  When activators are activated they switch output from lowercase letters to upper case letters. This creates a one-to-two relationship, where one key can have 2 possible output states, lower and upper. To make it easier to communicate these `keyboard layouts`, we instead give it a description word followed by layer. So the starting layout is often called the default layer or base layer and the keyboard layout containing uppercase letters is called the upper, shift or caps layer.

* pic of keyboard with no shift next to ones that do

There are many more keyboard layers, such as the Fn or function layer, number layer and navigation layer that will be discussed later. Together, all these keyboard layers can be grouped together to create a \`keymap\`. A Keymap is useful if you move between keyboards or share all the layers at once.

Diagram of key code > key > keyboard layout(a layout with a name is called a layer) > keymap
