# 1.2 Layers Fundamentals

Now that layers have been introduced, we can discuss why use layers and layer activators are useful.&#x20;

Layer activators allow more keyboard layers to be accessible which allow for more possible key code states. There are several types of layer activators besides the shift and caps lock key that will be explored in Chapter 3 [activating layers](broken-reference). Chapter 4 we will explore [creating layers](broken-reference) and common [layer patterns](broken-reference) that will make creating and learning easier. And finally, chapter 6 shows [layer examples](broken-reference) that I use.

Keyboard layers typically have a theme and several patterns within them. The shift layer can have pattern from one layer to the next or within the layer itself. For example, from the default layer to the shift layer all the alphabet keys are in the same position, just uppercase. This is so intuitive that key caps only print a single alphabet key on them. An example of patterns within a layer is the `<` `>` signs and the `{` `}` brackets being next to each other. Having patterns makes learning layers faster and it takes less processing time to execute keystrokes because the layout is intuitive.

{% hint style="warning" %}
If you have a qwerty layer on the lowercase layer, then a dvorak layer on the uppercase layer, the user is going to have a mental gymnastics battle typing between the layouts. 🤣
{% endhint %}

Another common layer is the numpad layer that creates number keys on the alphabet keys. This is inspired by the numpad, which full sized keyboard users may have built muscle memory on. Custom keyboards that are 40% in size are missing a number row and therefore are required to have a number layer. Layouts with number rows may still use a number layer because it is arguably easier to type multiple numbers in a row with one hand.

{% hint style="info" %}
Info: If a numpad layer is used, then other numbers keys can be repurposed!
{% endhint %}
