# 1.2 Why Use Layers

There are 3 main reasons to use keyboard layers:

1. Create more space for key codes
2. Increase your ergonomics
3. Improve your workflow

#### 1. Creates more space for key codes

If you want to add new key codes then you have to place them somewhere. Layers allow for easy access to all key codes that can be turned into keyboard shortcuts for applications.&#x20;

{% hint style="info" %}
40% keyboards have no number row and have to use a number layer to create numbers on alphabet keys.
{% endhint %}

#### 2. Increase your ergonomics

Ergonomics is a fancy way of saying typing comfort. When you are on the computer for hours a day, over many years, if you have a bad typing form that is slightly uncomfortable, then you will feel pain later in life. I recommend taking a quick read on [the importance of Ergonomics](https://www.typing.com/blog/the-importance-of-ergonomics/) to make sure your form is good.

With keyboard layers, you can move harder to reach keys around to increase ergonomics. The most comfortable hitting keys are in the middle of the keyboard near your home row keys. With layers, you can create more key codes at the home row location.

Some of the least comfortable keys to use are modifier keys like ctrl + another key to activate shortcuts. For example, if you are on a browser and you want to jump to next tab you have to press Ctrl+Tab or Command+Option+Right arrow on windows/mac. These causes your wrist to move around and can quickly become tiresome leading to injuries if you use shortcuts regularly. Instead, a layer can be activated by a thumb+home row position key, which is much more ergonomical.

{% hint style="danger" %}
If you want to feel discomfort, try hitting the n to backspace key with your right hand or ctrl + t key
{% endhint %}

#### 3. Improve your workflow

Layers can be categorized by theme, grouping similar keyboard shortcuts together to increase productivity. For example, a browser theme contains several keyboard shortcuts to navigate windows and tabs. These keyboard shortcuts will often use many different modifier keys which makes executing several hotkeys in succession difficult and slow. A layer can significantly increase typing speed by remapping all the shortcuts into a single key on the layer.

Keyboard shortcuts can also be strategically placed on a layer that can add logical consistency between layers. For example, in a navigation layer the arrow keys can be placed right besides each other like the default arrow keys. A home and end key is often also paired nearby, which will allow all movement to be done in a limited space. As you get used to the layer, less time will be needed to think about movement resulting in an increased workflow.&#x20;

By creating a layer, you invest initial time into learning application shortcuts and repositioning them into key locations you find comfortable. As you get more used to the layout, you will become way more productive using layers than with your mouse and keyboard.
