# 1.4 Cons of Layers

As much as I love keyboard layers, it would be unfair to not talk about its cons. A con is anything that holds keyboard layers back from being adopted, shared, or accepted. These cons are repeated as in 3 limitations categories. Some of these limitations do not apply to everyone and can be overcomed.

* Human limitations
* Keyboard limitations
* Knowledge limitations&#x20;

#### Human Limitations

* **Cost:** custom ergo keyboards are pricey ranging from $300-$400
* **Time:** learning new layers has an initial time investment before benefits are realized
* **Memory**:  deviating from years of developed muscle memory is hard
* **Anatomy:** typing comfort of each key is different depending on the users hand size making some ergo keyboards and layers less ergonomical

#### Keyboard Limitations

There are many keyboard customizations and requirements that have to be considered when sharing layers. Having all these options is not bad, but it does make it harder to share ideas across different keyboard communities.

Learning, creating and sharing layers is difficult because:

* There are many incompatible environments i.e. (operating system, firmware, and software)
* Keyboards have different key orientation and count making keyboard specific layers1

#### Knowledge limitation

The introduction to 3D printers and open source code has created a strong DIY communities creating ergo keyboards. But if you didn't have the technical knowledge and resources then getting an ergo keyboard was out of question.&#x20;

Fortunately for non keyboard-guru's, commercialized keyboard manufacturers started producing ergo keyboards resulting in a new audience to the keyboard community. I am apart of this group and I was lost on how to make functional layers. I spent countless hours scavenging through fringe keyboard forums and experimenting on how to create useful keyboard layers.&#x20;

This book addresses the knowledge gap in the community and aims to make keyboard layers easier to learn, create, and share.&#x20;

* Ch 1-3: Starts with learning keyboard layer fundamentals
* Ch 4-6: Is on how to create a tailored keyboard layer by theme
* Ch 8: is a collection of predefined layers categorized by themes making it easier to share layers
