# 1.3 Pros Of Layers

There are 3 main reasons to use keyboard layers:

1. Create more space for key codes
2. Increase your ergonomics
3. Improve your workflow

#### 1. Creates more space for key codes

If you want to add new key codes then you have to place them somewhere. Layers allow for easy access to all full sized keyboard key codes, access to keyboard shortcuts without having to use modifiers and macros which are a series of key codes that will be heavily discussed in later chapters.

info: 40% keyboards have no number row and required to use a layer to create numbers on alphabet keys.

#### 2. Increase your ergonomics

Ergonomics is a fancy way of saying typing comfort. When you are on the computer for hours a day, over many years, if you have bad typing form that is slightly uncomfortable, then you will feel it later in life. I recommend taking a quick read on [the importance of Ergonomics](https://www.typing.com/blog/the-importance-of-ergonomics/) to make sure your form is good.

With keyboard layers, you can move keys around to increase ergonomics too. The most comfortable hitting keys are in the middle of the keyboard near homerow keys. With layers, you can create more key codes at the home row location.

Some of the least comfortable keys to use are modifier keys like ctrl + another key to activate shortcuts. For example, if you are on a browser and you want to jump to next tab you have to press Ctrl+Tab or Command+Option+Right arrow on windows/mac. This causes your wrist to move around and can quickly become tiresome leading to injuries if you use shortcuts regularly. Instead having a layer that can be activated by a thumb+homerow position key is much more ergonomical and will increase your workflow.

Danger: if you want to feel discomfort, try hitting the n to backspace key or the ctrl + t key with the same hand 5 times in a row.

#### 3. Improve your workflow

Layers can group like keyboard shortcuts together to increase you productivity. Keyboard shortcuts will often use many different modifier keys making you slow down if you ever want to use shortcuts in succession. A layer solves this by remapping all the shortcuts into a single activated layer key.

Not only can you move them to a layer, you can construct the placement of the shortcuts too. Some shortcuts are related to movement or navigating with an up, down, left, right keys. These keys can be grouped next to each other to improve workflows.

By creating a layer, you invest initial time into learning application shortcuts and repositioning them into key locations you find comfortable. You invest this time to be more productive in the future.
